In trying to figure this out myself i was not able to find a good singular source to explains how to do some things so i figure out an easy work around. 

This works with an Ender 3 (Or any other marlin based printer) using Cura 4.8


Required Things:

1) Cura 4.8 or any recent version with the required features.
2) A model that consits of atleast two parts (One for each color)
3) Notepad++ or any other program to edit the g-code
4) "Printer Settings" Plugin https://marketplace.ultimaker.com/app/cura/plugins/fieldofview/PrinterSettingsPlugin

Section one: Setting up Cura 4.8 for Dual extrusion with single hotend

1 - Open up Cura and copy down print settings 
2 - press Ctrl+J to open up the profiles window
3 - Click "General" 
4 - ensure the settings "Automaticly drop models to buildplate" and "Ensure models are kept apart" are disabled.
5 - Click "Printers"
6 - Open the "Machine Settings" for your printer (If that option is not avaiable you will most likely need to click activate at the the of the window)
7 - Copy down all the settings (Copy to a notepad or somthing)
8 - Click close on the bottom right hand corner 
9 - Click "Add" along the top of the printers window
10 - Open the dropdown for "Add a non-networked printer" 
11 - Find "Custom" 
12 - If "Custom FFF printer" is not selected, select it.
13 -  On the right hand side change the name to whatever you will rememeber
14 - Click "Add"
14 - on the printer Tab; Replace the default settings with the ones you saved.
15 - Once done change the "Number of extruders" to 2
16 - Go into each of the Extruder tabs and change the "Ccompatible material diameter" to 1.75
17 - Close the window it will autosave
18 - Install the "Printer Settings" plugin from the ultimaker marketplace https://marketplace.ultimaker.com/app/cura/plugins/fieldofview/PrinterSettingsPlugin
19 - Reboot Cura
20 - Migrate any settings from your original printer settings over as the new profile will be set to stock settings.
21 - Go down to the "Printer Settings" section of printer settings and enable "Extruders Share Heater"

You are now all set for dual printing with a single hotend. 

Section Two: Using cura for dual extrusion with single hotend

1 - Import atleast two models 
2 - Select all models
3 - Right click and select "Merge Models"
4 - Right Click again on the newly merged model and click "Ungroup Models"
5 - Select each model, right click and select the extruder you wish to use
6 - (Optional Step) Change materials or colors for each extruder (This makes it easyer to see which one is which)
7 -  Make any changes you wish to settings
8 - Slice model and save.

This should provide you with a ready to go file if you have a dual extruder with a single hotend. If you wish to print this with a single extruder and single hotend you can follow the next steps

Section Three: Editing of G-Code for single extruder multi color.

* In this section we will be interacting with the G-code directly so if you are not comftrable with that feel free to ask for my help.
* I use a user defined langauge in my Notepad++ for G-code (I can't recall where i got it from)

1 - Open the saved gcode in Notepad++
2 - Remove the first instance of T0
3 - Replace all other instances of T0 with M600
4 - Find and Replace all instances of T1 with M600
5 - Save file and open in cura to ensure it worked (The model should appear as a single model as the extruder switch is now just a filament change)
6 - If everything is ok upload to your machine and start printing. 

Section Four: Results / Thoughts / Notes
